---
layout: default
title: get_windows
description: JAuto get_windows command reference
parent: Commands
grand_parent: References
nav_order: 1
---

# get_windows

The `get_windows` command is to retrieve all visible windows or dialogs in the target program. Its syntax is described in the [Communication Protocol](../communication.md#command-syntax).

## Arguments

* <a name="get_windows_arg_window_type">`window_type`</a><br>
    By default, the command retrieves all windows created using the `javax.swing.JFrame` base class. <br>
    To retrieve `javax.swing.JWindow` instead, set `window_type=window`.<br>
    To retrieve `javax.swing.JDialog` instead, set `window_type=dialog`.
* <a name="get_windows_arg_window_title">`window_title`</a><br>
    By default, the command retrieves all windows regardless of their titles.<br>
    To retrieve a window with a specific title, set `window_title=my target window title`. Title matching is case-insensitive, and the match must be the entire string, not a part of it.
* <a name="get_windows_arg_window_class">`window_class`</a><br>
    By default, the command retrieves all windows regardless of their base class names.<br>
    To retrieve a window with a specific base class name, set `window_class=my.baseclass.name`. Class name matching is case-sensitive. The value (`my.baseclass.name` for example) can be a part of or the full class name. The command will search both the Java base class (beginning with `javax.` or `java.`) and the inherited instance class for the match.
* <a name="get_windows_arg_is_active">`is_active`</a><br>
    By default, the command retrieves all windows regardless of whether they are active at the time.<br>
    To retrieve only active windows, set `is_active=1`. The term "active" refers to the result of the <a href="https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/awt/Window.html#isActive--" target="_blank">`isActive()` method call of `java.awt.Window`</a>.

## Output

The output will be written to a file, following the same format as described [Communication Protocol](../communication.md#output-file-format). Below is an example output generated by a `get_windows` command call:

    javax.swing.JFrame,com.example.Window,window:0,x:162,y:109,w:700,h:550,act:0,title:Example Window
    javax.swing.JFrame,com.example.Window,window:1,x:0,y:0,w:10,h:10,act:0,title:Mini Frame

Each line represents an individual window (or `JFrame` in the above case). For each window line, attributes are comma-delimited, and mostly follow a `field_name:field_value` format. The following table describes the meaning of each field:

| **Unnamed Attribute #1** | Java base class name for the window, or the `javax.` or `java.` class that the instance class inherited from. Related argument: <a href="#get_windows_arg_window_type">`window_type`</a>. |
| **Unnamed Attribute #2** | Class name for the window in the target program. Related argument: <a href="#get_windows_arg_window_class">`window_class`</a>. |
| **window** | Zero-based index for the window |
| **x** | Screen coordinate `x` of the window |
| **y** | Screen coordinate `y` of the window |
| **w** | Width of the window |
| **h** | Height of the window |
| **act** | Whether the window is active (responds to the keyboard), `1` for yes and `0` for no. Related argument: <a href="#get_windows_arg_is_active">`is_active`</a>. |
| **title** | Title of the window. Related argument: <a href="#get_windows_arg_window_title">`window_title`</a>. |

For `window_type=dialog`, the output could look like this (with a `JDialog`):

    javax.swing.JDialog,feature.configure.ah,window:0,x:182,y:129,w:768,h:576,act:1,title:Simulated Trading
