---
layout: default
title: list_ui_components
description: JAuto list_ui_components command reference
parent: Commands
grand_parent: References
nav_order: 3
---

# list_ui_components

The `list_ui_components` command is to enumerate all the UI components inside the windows. Its syntax is described in the [Communication Protocol](../communication.md#command-syntax).

## Arguments

* [`get_windows` common arguments](get_windows.md#arguments)<br>
  Before listing the menu bar, JAuto has to target at least a window first. To achieve this, the `get_windows` mechanism was used. Therefore all the [`get_windows` arguments](get_windows.md#arguments) are supported in this command. Besides these, `list_menu` has no other arguments.

## Output

The output will be written to a file, following the same format as described [Communication Protocol](../communication.md#output-file-format). Below is an example output generated by a `list_ui_components` command call:

    javax.swing.JDialog,feature.configure.ah,window:0,x:182,y:129,w:768,h:576,act:1,title:Trader Workstation Configuration (Simulated Trading)
    javax.swing.JButton,jtscomponents.hf,x:458,y:667,w:65,h:23,mx:490,my:678,selected:n,text:OK
    javax.swing.JButton,jtscomponents.hf,x:533,y:667,w:65,h:23,mx:565,my:678,selected:n,text:Apply
    javax.swing.JButton,jtscomponents.hf,x:608,y:667,w:65,h:23,mx:640,my:678,selected:n,text:Cancel
    javax.swing.JTree,feature.configure.panels.generic.ConfigurationTree,x:185,y:163,w:295,h:486,mx:332,my:406
    javax.swing.JTree(row),Configuration,x:185,y:163,w:111,h:20,mx:240,my:173
    javax.swing.JTree(row),Configuration/General,x:205,y:183,w:72,h:16,mx:241,my:191
    javax.swing.JTree(row),Configuration/Lock and Exit,x:205,y:199,w:105,h:16,mx:257,my:207
    javax.swing.JTree(row),Configuration/Messages,x:205,y:215,w:86,h:16,mx:248,my:223
    javax.swing.JTree(row),Configuration/API,x:205,y:231,w:42,h:16,mx:226,my:239
    javax.swing.JTree(row),Configuration/API/Settings,x:225,y:247,w:75,h:16,mx:262,my:255
    javax.swing.JTree(row),Configuration/API/Precautions,x:225,y:263,w:98,h:16,mx:274,my:271
    javax.swing.JTree(row),Configuration/API/News Configuration,x:225,y:279,w:144,h:16,mx:297,my:287
    javax.swing.JCheckBox,trader.common.tag.m,x:499,y:251,w:105,h:16,mx:551,my:259,selected:n,text:Read-Only API
    javax.swing.JCheckBox,trader.common.tag.m,x:499,y:272,w:595,h:16,mx:796,my:280,selected:n,text:TotalQuantity field may be used to transmit monetary value for BUY orders for mutual funds.
    javax.swing.JCheckBox,trader.common.tag.m,x:499,y:293,w:256,h:16,mx:627,my:301,selected:y,text:Download open orders on connection
    javax.swing.JCheckBox,trader.common.tag.m,x:499,y:314,w:337,h:16,mx:667,my:322,selected:y,text:Include virtual FX positions when sending portfolio.
    javax.swing.JCheckBox,trader.common.tag.m,x:499,y:335,w:306,h:16,mx:652,my:343,selected:y,text:Prepare DailyPnL when downloading positions
    javax.swing.JLabel,trader.common.tag.n,x:499,y:377,w:260,h:15,mx:629,my:384,text:Encode API messages, instrument names
    javax.swing.JComboBox,,x:769,y:377,w:156,h:14,mx:847,my:384,index:0,text:ASCII 7 (Python, Java, .NET)
    javax.swing.JComboBox(row),0,selected:y,text:ASCII 7 (Python, Java, .NET)
    javax.swing.JComboBox(row),1,text:OS Code Page (C++)

The first line identifies the window. For details about this line, please refer to [`get_windows` output](get_windows.md#output).

UI components in this window, such as `JButton`, `JTree` are listed from the second line below. Attributes are comma-delimited, and mostly follow a `field_name:field_value` format. The following table describes the meaning of each field:

| **Unnamed Attribute #1** | Java base class name for the component, or the `javax.` or `java.` class that the instance class inherited from. (see below for the case with "row".) |
| **Unnamed Attribute #2** | Class name for the component in the target program. |
| **x** | Screen coordinate `x` of the component |
| **y** | Screen coordinate `y` of the component |
| **w** | Width of the component |
| **h** | Height of the component |
| **mx** | Screen coordinate `x` of the center point of the component (see notes below) |
| **my** | Screen coordinate `y` of the center point of the component |
| **selected** | Whether a checkbox or a radio button is selected, `y` for yes and `n` for no. |
| **text** | The text associated with the component |

Lines containing `(row)` are special cases. `JList`, `JComboBox`, and `JTree` will trigger enumeration of the contents inside. Each entry (for example, an option for selection in a combobox) uses a whole line that comes immediately after these components.

For `JList` and `JComboBox`, the meanings of the fields are:

| **Unnamed Attribute #1** | `JList` or `JComboBox` plus `(row)` respectively, indicating that the line describes an entry inside the previous parent component. |
| **Unnamed Attribute #2** | The zero-based index of the entry |
| **selected** | Whether the entry is selected, `y` for yes and `n` for no. |
| **text** | The text associated with the entry |

For `JTree`, the meanings of the fields are:

| **Unnamed Attribute #1** | `JTree` plus `(row)` respectively, indicating that the line describes an entry inside the previous parent component. |
| **Unnamed Attribute #2** | The slash-`/`-delimited "path" for the tree entry |
| **x** | Screen coordinate `x` of the component |
| **y** | Screen coordinate `y` of the component |
| **w** | Width of the component |
| **h** | Height of the component |
| **mx** | Screen coordinate `x` of the center point of the component (see notes below) |
| **my** | Screen coordinate `y` of the center point of the component |

Attributes `mx`, `my` are only returned for `JTree`, enabling mouse clicks. But for both `JList` and `JComboBox`, only the index and the selection are returned, enabling only keyboard navigation.

If there is more than one window, the contents will be listed in a sequential format, like:

    window-1-line
    component-1-in-window-1
    component-2-in-window-1
    window-2-line
    component-1-in-window-2

**Notes regarding `mx`, `my`**: Even though attributes `mx` and `my` are returned for all components, there is no guarantee that the coordinates are clickable. When the panels are scrollable, coordinates for certain components might be off-screen. JAuto currently does not automatically determine the visible area of a scrollable panel. When writing automation, you have to determine the components are visible, before you run mouse and keyboard simulations on them. The easiest way to make this happen is to use `mx`, `my` to position the mouse in the scrollable panel, and send mouse wheel clicks to scroll.

